Apache Hadoop Tool (#10)
data-engineering-community/data-engineering-wiki: Tools/Apache Hadoop.md

---
Aliases: [Hadoop]
Tags: [seedling]
publish: true
---

> ![](../Assets/hadoop_logo.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![[Assets/hadoop_logo.jpg]]
```

[Apache Hadoop](https://hadoop.apache.org/) is a data processing framework designed to batch process big amounts of data.

# Official Documentation

https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/

# Apache Hadoop Advantages

- **MapReduce** function
- *Divide and Conquer* strategy to deal with data
- HDFS system to store data

# Apache Hadoop Disadvantages

- Hadoop works on disk, which makes it slower than memory
- Low efficiency on small files
- High latency

# HDFS

**HDFS** or Hadoop Distributed File System is a native tool on Hadoop that let us store structured and non-structured data on a local cluster. Although HDFS is the main option and is the one Apache Spark uses as well, Hadoop offers other tools such as HFTP, HSFTP, WebHDFS, and Amazon S3.

> # How does Hadoop works?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How does Hadoop work?
```

> Apache Hadoop is settled upon a **Master-Slave** system. A Master node, also known as *NameNode* in HDFS, will be the responsible of setting tasks and send information to Slave nodes through the information nodes, known as *DataNodes*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apache Hadoop is settled upon a **Leader-Follower** system. A Leader node, also known as *NameNode* in HDFS, will be responsible for creating tasks and sending information to Follower nodes through the information nodes, known as *DataNodes*. 
```

> Once the *namenode* and the *datanodes* are configured, the Master will set a **job-tracker**. This job-tracker will have control over the tasks using **task-trackers** on the Slave nodes. This is done to prevent Slaves trying to complete every task, that is, job-trackers **indicate exactly** which tasks must be done on each Slave node as well as which information does every Slave node need to fetch from the datanodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the *name node* and the *data nodes* are configured, the Leader will set a **job-tracker**. This job-tracker will have control over the tasks using **task-trackers** on the Follower nodes. This is done to prevent Followers from trying to complete every task, that is, job-trackers **indicate exactly** which tasks must be done on each follower node as well as which information every follower node needs to fetch from the data nodes.
```

> This way of working, the *Divide and Conquer* system, is also what defines MapReduce on Hadoop. Tasks get divided to every Slave node, which improves data processing speed on real large datasets. MapReduce consists of two functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way of working, the *Divide and Conquer* system, is also what defines MapReduce on Hadoop. Tasks get divided to every follower node, which improves data processing speed on real large datasets. MapReduce consists of two functions:
```

- Map: Map will read important information in the HDFS environment, analyzing key-value pairs and sending them to the datanodes.
- Reduce: Reduce will retrieve all pairs and group them by its key to produce the final pairs. Once this finishes, the data will be stored in a datanode.

> When MapReduce function is finished, the Master will be informed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When MapReduce function is finished, the leader will be informed.
```

> ![](../Assets/mapreduce.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![[Assets/mapreduce.png]]
```
